Software
********
:save_as: software.html
:url: software.html


Repeatedly, we find ourselves in need of software tools to implement ideas and
research projects. This can be software to help deal with large amounts of data
or the implementation of specific algorithms. Typically, such software tools are
tailored to an individual project and are, consequently, not very interesting
for other groups. However, over the years, we have created a number of software
projects that specifically target a broader audience and have reached
significant adoption. This page offers a compact overview of such projects â€”
all of which are Free and Open Source.

.. raw:: html

  <section id="neurodebian" class="alternate">

.. image:: {filename}/img/logo/neurodebian.png
   :alt: NeuroDebian Logo
   :target: http://neuro.debian.net/

NeuroDebian is a complete software platform for neuroscientific research
(MRI-based research in particular). NeuroDebian achieves its unique combination
of versatility and stability by integrating all relevant software components
with the `Debian <http://www.debian.org/>`_ operating system. At the same time,
NeuroDebian can be used with all popular operating systems such as MS Windows,
Mac OS X, as well as Linux-based computers. NeuroDebian is used on thousands of
machines world-wide on a daily basis.

An `article
<http://www.frontiersin.org/Neuroinformatics/10.3389/fninf.2012.00022/full>`_ on
the scope and implementation of NeuroDebian is published in `Frontiers in
Neuroinformatics <http://www.frontiersin.org/Neuroinformatics>`_. More
information on NeuroDebian is available at http://neuro.debian.net.

.. raw:: html

  <ul class='social-links'>
    <li><a class='icon-home' aria-label='Website' href="http://neuro.debian.net"></a></li>
    <li><a class='icon-twitter' aria-label='Twitter' href="https://twitter.com/neurodebian"></a></li>
    <li><a class='icon-github' aria-label='GitHub' href="https://github.com/neurodebian"></a></li>
  </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="pymvpa" class="alternate">

.. image:: {filename}/img/logo/pymvpa.png
   :alt: PyMPVA Logo
   :target: http://www.pymvpa.org/

PyMVPA is a toolbox for multivariate pattern analysis of neuroscientific data.
It is a Python-based, platform-independent, and open-source solution that aids
the application of algorithms from machine learning research to data from
various modalities. Since its first publication in 2009, PyMVPA has been
employed in studies performed by `numerous research groups
<http://pymvpa.org/whoisusingit.html>`_.

An `overview article
<http://www.frontiersin.org/Neuroinformatics/10.3389/neuro.11.003.2009/abstract>`_
on PyMVPA has been published in the journal `Frontiers in Neuroinformatics
<http://www.frontiersin.org/Neuroinformatics>`_. More information on PyMVPA,
including a detailed tutorial, are available at http://pymvpa.org.

.. raw:: html

  <ul class='social-links'>
    <li><a class='icon-home' aria-label='Website' href="http://www.pymvpa.org"></a></li>
    <li><a class='icon-twitter' aria-label='Twitter' href="https://twitter.com/pymvpa"></a></li>
    <li><a class='icon-github' aria-label='GitHub' href="https://github.com/PyMVPA/PyMVPA"></a></li>
  </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="datalad" class="alternate">

.. image:: {filename}/img/logo/datalad.png
   :alt: DataLad Logo
   :target: http://datalad.org

DataLad aims to provide access to scientific data available from various sources
(e.g. lab or consortium websites such as Human Connectome; data sharing portals
such as OpenfMRI and CRCNS) through a single convenient interface and integrated
with your software package managers (such as APT in Debian). Although initially
targeting neuroimaging and neuroscience data in general, it is designed for
broader use and we welcome a wide range of contributions from other domains.

.. raw:: html

  <ul class='social-links'>
    <li><a class='icon-home' aria-label='Website' href="http://datalad.org"></a></li>
    <li><a class='icon-twitter' aria-label='Twitter' href="https://twitter.com/datalad"></a></li>
    <li><a class='icon-github' aria-label='GitHub' href="https://github.com/datalad"></a></li>
  </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="nibabel" class="alternate">

.. image:: {filename}/img/logo/nibabel.png
   :alt: NiBabel Logo
   :target: http://nipy.org/nibabel/

PyNIfTI was one of the first packages to access data in the NIfTI format with
the Python programming language. In the meantime, NiBabel has absorbed and
superseded PyNIfTI, offering support for many more file formats. More
information on NiBabel is available at http://nipy.org/nibabel/.

.. raw:: html

  <ul class='social-links'>
    <li><a class='icon-home' aria-label='Website' href="http://nipy.org/nibabel/"></a></li>
    <li><a class='icon-github' aria-label='GitHub' href="https://github.com/nipy/nibabel"></a></li>
  </ul>
  </section>
